# Easter Eggs

1. The skeletal robot hands playing the piano during the opening credits were modeled after composer Ramin Djawadi's own hands. Djawadi provided reference footage of himself and some of his musicians playing piano to Elastic, the production company behind the title design.
2. Some of the songs played in the episode are period piece covers of popular rock songs including "Black Hole Sun" and "Paint it Black".
3. The second host built, Old Bill, has hands that look fake and it is said that even a handshake could affect the original hosts. This is a reference to the film Westworld (1973), where the only way a host could be identified as one would be by the hands, which weren't life like.
4. The park has "been operating for 30 years since the last glitch." There is a scene in the lower level which is now used for "cold storage" that looks like the ruins of the original Delos entrance to the park dating back to the original Westworld and Futureworld movies. The depicted Delos entrance was only visible in the sequel--there was no entrance foyer shown in the original Westworld movie. This hints at a continuation of the original story-line rather than being a complete reboot. This would be evidenced as canon if Westworld (1973) took place in 1983 and Futureworld (1976) being set in 1985. 30 years being 2015. 
5. There is a character named Hector Escaton. Eschaton is a word that is used to refer to the end of the world. In some science fiction, it refers to a super-human machine intelligence that will be the ultimate expression of human technology. 
6. The old photograph that Peter Abernathy finds and results in his decommissioning is a mirrored stock photo of Claire Unabia.
7. Robert Ford was also the name of the man who assassinated Jesse James.
8. Jonathan Nolan hired a real piano player to play the piano tunes that the automatic piano in the saloon plays.
9.  The episode won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Makeup for a Single-Camera Series (Non-Prosthetic).
10. There's a wanted poster in Sweetwater with the name Larry Clause. Larry Guy Clause is an Art Technician in the Art Department of Westworld.
11. Filming took place during a 22-day period in August 2014, in and around Los Angeles, as well as Moab, Utah.
12. Clementine frequently greets guests to the brothel with the comment "not much of a rind on you." A clementine is a type of orange with a thin peel, or rind. 
13. The set used for the saloon scenes is the same set used in "The Mentalist" Season 5 Episode 19 "Red Letter Day."
14. The deranged Peter Abernathy begins to frequently quote Shakespeare. 
15. The fly that you see settling on Delores' face was real. It had been cooled so it was too cold to fly away. However, the fly that wanders across her eyeball was a CGI one. 
16. The small town outlaw who drinks milk and lets it flow out of his body seems to be an homage to the synthetic humans of the Alien movies/ They also leaked a white fluid when damaged.
17. Just a note about the Greek pronunciation of Delos. The emphasis is placed on the first syllable and it sounds like DEE-los. The more comfortable American pronunciation is used throughout the series making it sound more like DEL-os. **sacar**
18. In interviews, Thandiwe Newton revealed that she turned down the option of a body double for her numerous nude scenes. As a former dancer, Newton is very comfortable with her body and she also felt it was important for the story to showcase how the Westworld hosts are treated. She actually found her madame's dress with all its corsets to be way more uncomfortable.
19. The soundtrack is peppered with adaptations of rock songs. Composer Ramin Djawadi felt that, as the plot involves robots in a classic Western setting, then the score should be equally filled with anachronisms.
20. The first season reportedly cost HBO a total of $100 million to produce with $25 million being spent on just the first episode.
21. Miranda Otto was originally cast in the role of Virginia Pittman but had to leave due to scheduling issues. She was replaced by Sidse Babett Knudsen.
22. Showrunners Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy are husband and wife in real life.

## Spoilers
The very last scene, which shows Dolores quickly killing a fly that had lands on her neck, is a hint of the hosts breaking their scripts.

## References
1. **High Sierra (1941)**: The hosts are only supposed to turn on each other if the guests lead them on the "High Sierra" storyline.
2. **The Wild Bunch (1969)**: Both titles introduce the town with a shot of children playing with scorpions.

## soundtrack

- **Partita No. 3 In A Minor(uncredited)** - Written by Johann Sebastian Bach (as J.S. Bach) - Piano Cover performed by Ramin Djawadi
- **Main Title Theme** - Written by Ramin Djawadi - Piano Cover performed by Ramin Djawadi
- **Black Hole Sun** - Written by Chris Cornell - Piano Cover performed by Ramin Djawadi
- **Paint It Black** - Written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards - Piano Cover performed by Ramin Djawadi
- **Ain't No Grave (Gonna Hold This Body Down)** - Written by Claude Ely - Piano Cover performed by Johnny Cash
- **Sweetwater** - Written by Ramin Djawadi - Piano Cover performed by Ramin Djawadi